In accounting, there is always a balance
that we call the fundamental
equation, and it is that the asset
is equal to the liability plus
the net asset.
It is very useful to understand it well
because it helps us to check whether
the accounting seats have been well
done or if we have made any
mistake.
And this lesson will help you understand
the balance sheet in a greater
perspective.
As we say, the asset is equal to the
liability plus the net asset.
The block of the left is
the same as the block of the right
or vice versa.
But to understand it will help
you see it from this perspective.
In fact, the two sides of the balance
sheet are the same.
What happens is that we are seeing
it from a different perspective.
Net assets and liabilities
tell us where the
funds came from.
The asset tells us where we have
allocated those funds.
Look at it this way.
We have created a company.
We have contributed the social capital
of $100,000.
That $100,000 is in the bank.
Both sides of the balance sheet are
actually reporting the same thing.
What are those $100,000?
What happens is that we see it from
a different perspective.
In the case of the right, what informs
us is where they come from.
And what he is saying is that we have
brought it to our partners.
And in the case of the left of
the destinations, what it is
telling you is that those $100,
000 are in the banks.
But it is really the same.
It is therefore very obvious that
there must be a balance.
Net assets are equal to net assets.
And look, we'll see it differently.
Let us see it like this.
Net assets are equal to less passive
assets.
It is also very common sense.
What belongs to the partners, their
real net worth is equal to all
the investments they have made
minus the debts they have contracted.
This balance means that every
time we make an account
note, we have to make
another note on another
account to maintain
the balance.
This is called the double entrance
system.
If we only make a note, imagine
yourself in the bank account, because
we would be breaking that balance.
If we increase banks but do not
increase any other part, the
asset would be greater to the net
asset plus the liability.
That is, every seat always
affects at least two accounts.
Let us take a few examples to illustrate it.
Let's look at a case.
We create a company, start the business
and the partners contribute $100,
000 to the social capital.
What effect is produced?
Increase the passive by $100,000.
But there is a need to move
forward so that the balance
can beined.
In this case, what we do
is an account note for
the same amount, for $100,000.
As we can see from the balance
sheet, the balance is still beingined.
We have an asset with $100,
000 and the liability
and net worth are
$100,000.
Now we are making an investment
in a fixed asset worth $75,000.
It decreases the asset account
by $75,000, so the asset
decreases by $75,000.
And what we do is replace it
with another asset account, in
this case the machine, worth
$75,000.
If we look at the balance
sheet, we see that the balance
is still being met.
In this case, banks have ceased
to have a $100,000 amount,
but the machinery
grows to 75,000.
Finally, we got a loan.
We make a note on the long-
term debt for a value
of $25,000.
The passive is increasing
by $25,000.
And the asset too, because the
balance of banks grows by 25,000.
We will again check how this
last movement allows us to continue
to fulfill the requirement of balance.
The bank account has
increased by $25,000.
And the long-term debt, which is
a passive account, has been created
in the have for $25,000.
We therefore continue to fulfill
the liability and net asset, which
are equal to the asset.